>> Woodruff: OUTRAGE AND
QUESTIONS AFTER VIDEO CAPTURES A
POLICE OFFICER PULLING HIS GUN
ON UNARMED TEENS IN TEXAS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY AFTER
ELECTIONS IN TURKEY, VOTERS
REJECT PRESIDENT ERDOGAN'S
ATTEMPT TO CONSOLIDATE POWER.
PLUS, A NEW DAY IN COURT FOR
ADNAN SYED, AFTER THE HIT
PODCAST "SERIAL" CHRONICLES HIS
CASE, A MARYLAND COURT OF
APPEALS GIVES THE CONVICTED
MURDERER ANOTHER CHANCE AT A NEW
TRIAL.
>> WHAT'S BEEN USEFUL ABOUT
"SERIAL" AND OFTEN HAPPENS IN
CASES WHERE PUBLIC ATTENTION IS
FOCUSED ON A POSSIBLE
MISCARRIAGE OF JUSTICE, IS THAT
ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE BEGIN TO
LOOK AT THE RECORD AND GO, "OH
WELL, THIS SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE
OR THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE."
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE NATIONAL DEBATE
OVER POLICE CONDUCT TOWARD
MINORITIES WAS RENEWED TODAY, IN
A SERIES OF CASES.
IN NORTH CHARLESTON, SOUTH
CAROLINA, A GRAND JURY INDICTED
FORMER POLICEMAN MICHAEL SLAGER
FOR MURDER.
HE WAFIRES D AFTER THIS VIDEO
SURFACED OF HIM SHOOTING A BLACK
SUSPECT, WALTER SCOTT, IN APRIL,
AS SCOTT RAN AWAY.
PROSECUTOR SCARLETT WILSON SAID
THE VIDEO WILL BE CRUCIAL.
>> IF WE CAN HAVE A CASE THAT
DEPICTS THE CRIME IN WHICH WE
AREN'T HAVING TO RELY JUST ON
PEOPLE'S PERCEPTIONS THEN THE
JURY WILL BE ABLE TO MAKE UP
THEIR OWN MIND AFTER SEEING THE
VIDEO AND HEARING OTHER
TESTIMONY.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, IN
BOSTON, POLICE AND THE F.B.I.
RELEASED SURVEILLANCE VIDEO OF
LAST WEEK'S FATAL SHOOTING OF
USAAMA RAHIM, A SUSPECT IN A
TERROR INVESTIGATION.
THE BLURRY FOOTAGE SHOWS RAHIM
BEING APPROACHED BY POLICE AND
FEDERAL AGENTS AS HE CROSSES A
PARKING LOT.
OFFICIALS SAY HE LUNGED AT THEM
WITH A KNIFE, SO THEY FIRED.
ALL OF THIS, AS SOCIAL MEDIA
HEATED UP TODAY WITH TALK OF A
TEXAS POLICEMAN, AND A
CONFRONTATION WITH TEENAGERS.
WE'LL HAVE THAT STORY, AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY
ACKNOWLEDGED SETBACKS IN IRAQ
IN THE FIGHT AGAINST ISLAMIC
STATE FORCES.
AND, HE CONCEDED THERE'S STILL
NO FULLY DEVELOPED PLAN IN PLACE
TO TRAIN THE IRAQIS.
HE MET WITH IRAQI PRIMMINIE STER
HAIDER AL-ABADI AT THE GROUP OF
SEVEN SUMMIT IN GERMANY, AND
HELD A NEWS CONFERENCE
AFTERWARD.
>> WE DON'T YET HAVE A COMPLETE
STRATEGY BECAUSE IT REQUIRES
COMMITMENTS ON THE PART OF THE
IRAQIS AS WELL ABOUT HOW
RECRUITMENT TAKES PLACE; HOW
THAT TRAINING TAKES PLACE.
AND SO THE DETAILS OF THAT ARE
NOT YET WORKED OUT.
>> Woodruff: SEPARATELY, THE
LEADERS OF THE MAJOR INDUSTRIAL
DEMOCRACIES, AND OTHERS, AGREED
AT THE SUMMIT TO KEEP SANCTIONS
ON RUSSIA OVER ITS ACTIONS IN
UKRAINE.
MR. OBAMA SAID RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN HAS TO GIVE UP A
"WRONG-HEADED DESIRE TO RECREATE
THE GLORIES OF THE SOVIET
EMPIRE."
THE PRESIDENT ALSO CRITICIZED
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT TODAY.
HE SAID THE JUSTICES SHOULD
NEVER HAVE AGREED TO HEAR A
CHALLENGE TO SUBSIDIES UNDER THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
STILL, HE PREDICTED THE JUSTICES
WILL "PLAY IT STRAIGHT" AND
LEAVE THE LAW INTACT.
A DECISION IS EXPECTED THIS
MONTH.
THE HIGH COURT DID GIVE THE
WHITE HOUSE A WIN TODAY IN A
LEGAL DISPUTE WITH CONGRESS.
A SIX TO THREE DECISION STRUCK
DOWN A 2002 LAW THAT ALLOWED
AMERICANS BORN IN JERUSALEM TO
LIST ISRAEL AS THEIR BIRTHPLACE
ON PASSPORTS.
ISRAEL AND THE PALESTINIANS HAVE
LONG SEEN THE CITY'S STATUS
DIFFERENTLY, AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS DECLINED TO TAKE
SIDES.
IN MEXICO, THE RULING PARTY AND
ITS ALLIES ARE CLOSE TO HOLDING
ON TO THE LOWER HOUSE OF
CONGRESS, AS VOTE-COUNTING
CONTINUES IN SUNDAY'S ELECTION.
THAT'S DESPITE DRUG VIOLENCE,
CORRUPTION AND LACKLUSTER GROWTH
THAT CONTINUE TO BE A DRAG ON
THE COUNTRY.
PROTESTERS IN SOME SOUTHERN
STATES BURNED BALLOTS AND
BOYCOTTED THE VOTE.
BUT PRESIDENT ENRIQUE PENA NIETO
DECLARED MOST MEXICANS HAD
REJECTED VIOLENCE.
REJECTED VIOLENCE. >> (
translated): BY VOTING
ON
>> (translated): BY
VOTING ON THIS DAY, THE CITIZENS
HAVE
THIS DAY, THE CITIZENS HAVE
EXPRESSED OUR POLITICAL WILL FOR
THE PATH OF INSTITUTIONS.
THERE WERE THOSE WHO TRIED TO
AFFECT THESE ELECTIONS.
IN THE LAST FEW DAYS, THEY EVEN
PARTICIPATED IN VIOLENT ACTS,
LOOKING TO DISHEARTEN THE
POPULATION.
HOWEVER, DESPITE THEM, THIS
SUNDAY, MILLIONS OF MEXICANS
WENT TO VOTE, CONVINCED THAT
DEMOCRACY IS THE BEST PATH FOR
MEXICO.
>> Woodruff: EVEN SO, FOR THE
FIRST TIME, AN INDEPENDENT,
JAIME RODRIGUEZ, WAS ELECTED
GOVERNOR OF A STATE.
HE CAMPAIGNED ON AN ANTI-
CORRUPTION PLATFORM.
THE FLOOD OF MIGRANTS ACROSS THE
MEDITERRANEAN SEA SURGED AGAIN
OVER THE WEEKEND.
EUROPEAN NAVIES PLUCKED NEARLY
6,000 PEOPLE FROM RICKETY
SMUGGLER BOATS AS THEY ATTEMPTED
TO CROSS FROM NORTH AFRICAN
NATIONS, MAINLY TO ITALY.
SOME POLITICAL LEADERS THERE
HAVE VOWED TO STOP PROVIDING
SHELTER TO THE NEW ARRIVALS.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, STOCKS
WERE DOWN AGAIN AMID LINGERING
WORRIES OVER POTENTIAL INTEREST
RATE HIKES AND THE DEADLOCK OVER
GREEK DEBT.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 83 POINTS TO CLOSE BELOW
17,770.
THE NASDAQ FELL 47 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED 13.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
POLICE SPORENSE TO A POOL PARTY
IN TEXAS RAISES TENSIONS.
WHAT SURPRISE ELECTION RESULTS
IN TURKEY MEAN FOR THE REGION.
TWO INMATES ON THE RUN AFTEAR
DRAMATIC PRISON BREAK IN NEW
YORK.
OUR WEEKLY KICKOFF OF ALL THINGS
POLITICS.
HOW THE HIT PODCAST "SERIAL"
OPENS THE DOOR FOR A CONVICTED
MURDER TO APPEAL.
AND, A BAND OF RUSSIAN HACKERS
CAUSE CHAOS OFFLINE.
>> Woodruff: TENSION AND
FRUSTRATION REMAIN HIGH IN A
TEXAS TOWN TONIGHT, THREE DAYS
AFTER A POLICE OFFICER THREW
DOWN AN UNARMED GIRL.
THE INCIDENT HAPPENED AFTER A
PHONE CALL COMPLAINING ABOUT A
POOL PARTY, BUT GAINED NATIONAL
ATTENTION BECAUSE OF VIDEO
SHOWING THE POLICE RESPONSE.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM PICKS UP THE
STORY.
>> Brangham: IT'S THE VIDEO
SENDING RIPPLES OF OUTRAGE
ACROSS THIS DALLAS SUBURB, AND
THE WIDER WORLD.
THE FOOTAGE OF A WHITE POLICEMAN
PUSHING DOWN A BLACK GIRL IN A
SWIMSUIT, AND POINTING HIS GUN
AT OTHER BLACK TEENS IN A MULTI-
RACIAL CROWD.
IT HAPPENED FRIDAY EVENING AFTER
A DISTURBANCE AT A NEIGHBORHOOD
POOL PARTY.
SOMEONE CALLED THE POLICE, AND
12 OFFICERS SHOWED UP.
POLICE CHIEF GREG CONLEY.
>> UPON ARRIVAL OFFICERS WERE
CONFRONTED BY A LARGE GROUP OF
PEOPLE.
PRIVATE SECURITY AND HOMEOWNERS
WERE POINTING OUT JUVENILES WHO
WERE CREATING THE DISTURBANCE,
FIGHTING AND REFUSING TO LEAVE.
>> Brangham: CONLEY SAYS THE
YOUTHS DO NOT LIVE IN THE AREA
AND DID NOT HAVE PERMISSION TO
BE THERE.
PROTEST LEADERS SAY THEY DID
HAVE PERMISSION.
THE POLICEMAN HIGHLIGHTED IN THE
VIDEO, IDENTIFIED AS CORPORAL
ERIC CASEBOLT, IS NOW ON
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
SOME IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD, LIKE
SEAN TOON, SAY THEY SUPPORT HIS
ACTIONS.
TOON EVEN BROUGHT A SIGN TO THE
POOL ON SUNDAY, TO MAKE HIS
POINT.
>> WATCHING 30 SECONDS OR SEVEN
MINUTES OF A CLIP, IT DOESN'T
TELL THE WHOLE STORY.
I THINK HE DID WHAT HE THOUGHT
HE HAD TO DO TO CONTROL THE
SITUATION.
>> Brangham: BUT ONE OF THE
GIRLS WHO ORGANIZED THE PARTY
SAYS THE USE OF FORCE WAS OVER
THE TOP.
>> HE WAS JUST AGGRESSIVE FOR NO
REASON AT ALL.
IT WAS HORRIBLE.
EVERYTHING COULD HAVE BEEN
SOLVED ENTIRELY WAY BETTER THAN
WHAT IT WAS.
I MEAN, THERE WERE OTHER
OFFICERS THAT WERE ACTUALLY NICE
TO PEOPLE.
>> Brangham: TODAY, COMMUNITY
LEADERS AND PARENTS OF SOME OF
THE KIDS WHO ATTENDED THE PARTY,
CALLED FOR CASEBOLT TO BE FIRED.
>> THE FACT OF THE MATTER: THIS
OFFICER RECKLESSLY ATTACKED THIS
YOUNG LADY WHO WAS FOLLOWING HIS
INSTRUCTION TO LEAVE.
THAT WASN'T ACCEPTABLE ENOUGH
FOR HIM.
>> Brangham: AND McKINNEY'S
MAYOR, BRIAN LOUGHMILLER, ISSUED
A STATEMENT SAYING HE'S
"DISTURBED AND CONCERNED" BY
WHAT THE VIDEO SHOWS.
A PROTEST RALLY IS PLANNED THIS
EVENING.
TO DISCUSS THIS IN GREATER
CONTEXT, I'M JOINED NOW BY LEONA
ALLEN, DEPUTY MANAGING EDITOR OF
THE "DALLAS MORNING NEWS," WHO
HAS COVERED THE AREA AROUND
McKINNEY.
LEONA ALLEN, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Branham: I WONDER IF YOU
COULD TELL ME WHAT IS
McKINNEY?
WHAT IS THE COMMUNITY LIKE WHERE
ALL THIS TOOK PLACE?
>> SURE.
McKINNEY IS A SUBURB NORTH OF
DALLAS.
IT HAS, YOU KNOW, MAJORITY
WHITE, 75%, AND THE POPULATION
IS ABOUT 10% BLACK, BUT A SUPERB
IN COLIN COUNTY WHICH IS A HIGH
GROWTH AREA OF THE DALLAS AREA.
>> Branham: IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY CLEAR THE POLICE
OFFICER'S ACTIONS WERE DRIVEN BY
RACE, BUT IS THIS SOMETHING YOU
FOUND SURPRISING THAT HAPPENED
IN THIS COMMUNITY?
>> NOT TOTALLY SURPRISED.
I HAVE BEEN IN THIS BUSINESS
ABOUT 30 YEARS NOW AND NOTHING
SURPRISES ME ANYMORE BURKS
McKINNEY HAD, IN 2004, AN
INCIDENT IN WHICH THERE WAS A
SHOOTING WHERE FOUR PEOPLE WERE
KILLED AND THE POLICE ACTIONS
WERE CALLED INTO QUESTION BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, THE WAY
THEY HANDLED THE CASE AND THE
COMMUNITY AFTERWARDS.
SO IT WASN'T A TOTAL SURPRISE.
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME HISTORY OF
RACIAL TENSIONS THERE, BUT THAT
WAS ABOUT 11 YEARS AGO.
>> Branham: THAT WAS NOT A
POLICE SHOOT SOMETHING ONE, WAS
IT?
>> NO, THAT WAS A SHOOTING IN AN
BALTIMORE COMPLEX ON THE EAST
SIDE.
BUT HOW POLICE HANDLED THE
ARREST AND THE COMMUNITY
AFTERWARDS IS WHAT WAS BEING
QUESTIONED BY THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT.
>> Branham: ALSO, THERE WERE
SOME PEOPLE WHO WATCHED THIS
VIDEO SAID THIS, TO THEM, WAS
EVIDENCE THE POLICE HAD DONE THE
RIGHT THING.
THEN YOU HAD POLICE SAYING THE
ACT -- EXACT OPPOSITE.
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THE CHASM?
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHAT PRECEDED
THE POLICE ARRIVAL.
ANYONE WATCHING THE VIDEO, I
THINK IN GENERAL FOLKS AGREE
THAT THE ACTIONS OF THE ONE
OFFICER WERE OVER THE TOP.
SOME OF THE POLICE OFFICERS,
FOLKS WHO HAVE SEEN THE VIDEO,
ARE SEEING DEESCALATING THE
SITUATION.
SO THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO SUPPORT
THE POLICE IN THAT COMMUNITY AND
THINK OVERALL THEY DID THE RIGHT
THING.
THE CHIEF ACTED QUICKLY, WHICH
HASN'T BEEN THE CASE IN SOME OF
THE OTHER INCIDENTS AROUND THE
COUNTRY, WHICH PEOPLE SUPPORTED
AND APPRECIATED.
THEN IT'S HARD TO WATCH THAT
VIDEO AND NOT TO BE DISTURBED,
YOU KNOW, AS MOM, PARENT,
COMMUNITY MEMBER WATCHING HOW
THE GIRL WAS TREATED.
>> Branham: YOU'RE A PARENT,
I'M A PARENT OF A YOUNG
TEENAGER, WHAT IS THE
CONVERSATION PARENTS ARE HAVING
ABOUT HOW THEY'D LIKE THEIR KIDS
TO INTERACT WHEN THEY CONFRONT
THE POLICE?
>> SURE.
I THINK THAT, FOR MOST OF US
PARENTS, WE CERTAINLY ARE HAVING
CONVERSATIONS WITH OUR KIDS
ABOUT BEING RESPECTFUL.
I THINK THAT WAS WHAT THE MAJOR
CONCERN WAS FROM FOLKS WHO HAD
SEEN THE VIDEO IS THE OFFICER
WAS ACTING VERY DISRESPECTFUL IN
HIS LANGUAGE AND TREATMENT OF
THE CROWD.
SEVERAL OF THE OFFICERS, AS YOU
SAW, COULD BE SEEING TRYING TO
DEESCALATE IT.
SO YOU TEACH YOUR CHILDREN TO BE
RESPECTFUL OF AUTHORITY, AND YOU
HOPE THEY DO THAT, BUT YOU ALSO
HOPE THE GROWNUPS ARE BEING
GROWNUPS AS WELL AS THEY ARE
TREATING KIDS.
SO IT'S A CONVERSATION WE HAVE
OFTEN WITH OUR KIDS, NOW, TOO
OFTEN BECAUSE OF THESE INCIDENTS
HAPPENING AROUND THE COUNTRY.
>> Branham: LEONA ALLEN,
"DALLAS MORNING NEWS," THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE ANTS FOR
PRESIDENT ARE CRISS-CROSSING THE
COUNTRY BY PLANE, TRUCK AND
MOTORCYCLE.
NO BETTER TIME TO CATCH UP WITH
THE CAMPAIGN THAN POLL SIX
MONDAY, AND OUR GUESTS SUSAN
PAGE ALAN AND TAMERA KEITH,
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
IT WAS A BRITTLE WEEKEND IN
IOWA, TAMARA.
WE HAD REPUBLICANS GATHERING.
JONI ERNST CALLED IT WORST IN
RIDE?
THEY WERE ON THEIR CYCLES
INCLUDING GOVERNOR SCOTT WAR R
RWALK -- WALKER AND FORMER
GOVERNOR RICK PERRY.
ARE THEY DIFFERENTIATING
THEMSELVES ON NATIONAL SECURITY?
>> I THINK TWO PEOPLE HAVE WELL
DIFFERENTIATED.
LINDSEY GRAHAM ON ONE SIDE SAID
HE WOULD SEND 10,000 TROOPS IN,
AND RAND PAUL TAKES MORE OF AN
ISOLATIONIST TACK.
YOU COULD SAY GRAHA LINDSEY GRA,
THE SENATOR FROM SOUTH CAROLINA,
GOT INTO THE RACE TO FORCE THE
CONVERSATION AND OFFSET WHAT
RAND PAUL IS TALK ABOUT.
THEN YOU HAVE THE MUSHY MIDDLE
WHERE LOTS OF PEOPLE, LOTS OF
CANDIDATES AND THEY ARE MOSTLY
SAYING BARACK OBAMA IS WRONG,
AND WE SHOULD GET I.S.I.S.
BUT THEY'RE NOT BEING QUITE AS
SPECIFIC ABOUT WHAT THEY'D DO
BECAUSE, TURNS OUT, THIS IS A
TOUGH ONE.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN, TALK ABOUT
IT.
WHY ARE THEY DOING THIS?
>> WE ARE SEEING THE FIRST
SERIOUS SPLIT ON NATIONAL
SECURITY ISSUES IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY SINCE THE
VIETNAM WAR.
A WEEK BEFORE WE HAD CANDIDATES
LIKE RAND PAUL WHO WOULD TALK
ABOUT WITHDRAWING, HAVING A MORE
RESERVED ATTITUDE TOWARD THE
WORLD.
BUT RAND PAUL WAS NEVER A
CREDIBLE NOMINEE FOR PRESIDENT.
RAND PAUL IS A CREDIBLE NOMINEE
FOR PRESIDENT.
WE'RE SEEING THE TRADITION IN
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY HAVING A
HAWKISHNESS FOR ASSERTIVENESS
WITH I.S.I.S. AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: ARE THEY DOING
THIS BECAUSE THEY HAVE NOTHING
ELSE TO TALK ABOUT OR BECAUSE
THEY THINK THEY CAN HELP
THEMSELVES WITH THE REPUBLICAN
ELECTORATE?
>> WE'RE IN A SITUATION WHERE
THE WORLD IS IN TURMOIL AND THIS
IS NOT JUST AGAINST BARACK OBAMA
BUT HIS FORMER SECRETARY OF
STATE HILLARY CLINTON WHO WILL
HAVE TO DISTANCE HERSELF FROM
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED
IN THE WORLD DURING THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Woodruff: TAMARA, WE SHOULD
ALSO POINT OUT SCOTT WALKER IS
TALKING SOCIAL ISSUES AND MADE
HEADLINES WHEN IT SAID IF THE
SUPREME COURT SAYS STATES CANNOT
BAN SAME-SEX MARRIAGE, HE WOULD
SUPPORT A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT.
WHAT IS HE SAYING TO
CONSERVATIVE VOTERS, TO
REPUBLICAN VOTERS?
>> THE AUDIENCE IS SOCIAL
CONSERVATIVES IN IOWA.
SCOTT WALKER NEEDS TO WIN IOWA.
IOWA IS EVERYTHING FOR SCOTT
WALKER BECAUSE IT WOULD GIVE HIM
A TICKET OUT AND MOMENTUM.
SOCIAL CONSERVATIVES,
EVANGELICALS IN IOWA HAVE PICKED
OTHER PEOPLE IN THE PAST AND
THERE ARE PEOPLE RUNNING RIGHT
NOW.
SO HE'S WORKING TO WIN THOSE
PEOPLE.
HE'S FINDING OUT AMONG SOCIAL
CONSERVATIVES, IT IS A POPULAR
OPINION AND THEY WOULD SUPPORT A
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
IF YOU LOOK MORE BROADLY, THE
VAST MAJORITY, 57% OF AMERICANS
NOW SUPPORT, GAY MARRIAGE AND
72% BELIEVE IT WILL BE LEGALLY
RECOGNIZED, INCLUDING
REPUBLICANS WHO THINK IT'S
INEVITABLE.
>> Woodruff: BIG SHIFT ON THIS
ISSUE.
>> I SEE SCOTT WALKER FOLLOWING
THE IOWA STRATEGY.
HERE ARE THE LAST TWO WINNERS OF
THE IOWA CAUCUS ON THE
REPUBLICAN SIDE WERE THE MOST
SOCIALLY CONSERVATIVE
CANDIDATES.
BUT WHAT RISK IN A GENERAL
ELECTION.
IN THAT SAME PEW POLL, 6 AND 10
OF REPS UNDER 35 SUPPORT
RECOGNIZING SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
THERE'S A TREND OF DEMOCRATS AND
ALSO YOUNGER REPUBLICANS
SUPPORTING IT.
>> Woodruff: DEMOCRATS, SUSAN,
HILLARY CLINTON, SHE'S GOT A FEW
DAYS BEFORE SHE LAUNCHES HER
OFFICIAL CAMPAIGN, HAVING A BIG
EVENT THIS WEEKEND IN NEW YORK.
BUT SHE'S ALREADY TALKING.
WE HEARD HER TALKING IN THE LAST
FEW DAYS ABOUT VOTING RIGHTS.
WHAT KIND OF STRATEGY IS THAT?
>> TWO-PRONG.
TALKING ABOUT VOTING RIGTSH
ENERGIZES AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VOTERS WHO FEEL LIKE THEIR
VOTING RIGHTS ARE IN PERIL.
WE KNOW HILLARY CLINTON WILL DO
WELL AMONG AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VOTERS TO F SHE'S GOING TO
REPLICATE THE VOTE BARACK OBAMA
TUPUT TOGETHER.
WHAT IF WE HAND ELECTION LIKE IN
2000 AND A STATE LIKE WE HAD IN
FLORIDA AT THAT TIME, EVEN IF
VOTER I.D. LAWS AFFECTED ONLY A
VERY FEW VOTE, IT COULD SWING
THINGS.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS A
TACTIC -- I MEAN, THEY THINK
THEY CAN'T LOSE ON.
>> THIS THEY DON'T WANT TO LOSE
ON.
THIS.
>> AND WHAT DID SHE SAY?
WHO COULD BE AGAINST DEMOCRACY?
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES, SO
SHE'S DEFINITELY DOING THIS AND
IT'S ALL ABOUT THE OBAMA
COALITION AND NOT JUST ABOUT
GETTING THEM TO VOTE FOR HER,
BUT GETTING LOTS OF VOTERS TO
VOTE FOR HER.
SHE NEEDS ATTORNEY JIZ THE
VOTERS BARACK OBAMA ENERGIZED
AND THERE IS THIS BIG
OUTSTANDING QUESTION, ARE THEY
BARACK OBAMA VOTERS OR
DEMOCRATIC VOTERS.
>> Woodruff: WHICHS THE
INTERESTING QUESTION, SUSAN,
ABOUT WHAT DOES SHE NEED TO DO
THIS WEEKEND WHEN SHEA
ANNOUNCES.
MEANWHILE, BERNIE SANDERS SON
THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL WE HEARING
DRAWING SURPRISINGLY LARGE
CROWDS.
BUT IN TERMS OF SECRETARY
CLINTON U WHAT IS IT SHE NEEDS
TO SAY AT THIS POINT ABOUT THE
RATIONALE FOR HER CANDIDACY?
>> I THINK SHE NEEDS TO
ARTICULATE ONE.
THE RATIONALE THAT SAYS THIS IS
MY VISION, WHERE I WANT TO LEAD
THE COUNTRY AND WHY I WANT TO BE
PRESIDENT.
WE HAVEN'T HEARD THAT MESSAGE
FROM HER.
SOMEBODY LIKE BERNIE SANDERS,
73-YEAR-OLD DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
BERNIE SANDERS IS NOT GOING TO
WREST THE NOMINATION FROM
HILLARY CLINTON BUT HAS EXPOSED
WEAKNESSES ON HER PART BOTH IN
CONNECTION HE IS' MADE WITH
AUDIENCES AND ON THE VERY
SPECIFIC AND VERY LIBERAL AGENDA
HE'S OUTLINING.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU SAY?
THIS CAMPAIGN SPEECH WILL BE
A LAUNCHING POINT FOR A DETAILED
CONVERSATION TABILITY VERY
POLICIES BERNIE SANDERS HAS BEEN
TALKING ABOUT.
SO SHE WILL START GETTING INTO
THE DETAILS.
ALSO IMPORTANT FOR HER TO GET
PEOPLE EXCITED.
SMALL CHATS IN COFFEE SHOPS WITH
PRE-SELECTED GUESTS DON'T
NECESSARILY GET PEOPLE OUT AND
EXCITED AND WANTING TO
VOLUNTEER, AND SHE NEEDS PEOPLE
TO VOLUNTEER FOR THIS CAMPAIGN.
IT'S GOING TO BE AN
ORGANIZING-BASED CAMPAIGN AND
SHE NEEDS ORGANIZERS, PEOPLE WHO
WILL BE EXCITED ABOUT HER AND
THIS IS ABOUT CONCRETING
EXCITEMENT.
BERNIE SANDERS AS A COUNTERPOINT
MAKES IT MORE INTERESTING.
>> MM-HMM.
>> Woodruff: TAMERA KEITH,
SUSAN PAGE, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A POLITICAL
EARTHQUAKE IN TURKEY.
THE MAN WHO HAS DOMINATED THAT
COUNTRY'S POLITICS FOR MORE THAN
A DECADE, PRESIDENT RECEP
TAYYIP ERDOGAN, WAS COUNTING ON
HIS PARTY SECURING ENOUGH VOTES
IN SUNDAY'S ELECTION TO HELP
PAVE THE WAY FOR AN EXPANSION OF
HIS POWERS.
INSTEAD, AN UNLIKELY COALITION
HELPED LEAD A STUNNING REBUKE TO
THE LEADER'S AMBITIONS.
THE HEADLINES AT TURKISH
NEWSSTANDS THIS MORNING SAID IT
ALL: "DOWNFALL," NEXT TO A PHOTO
OF ERDOGAN.
AND ACROSS THE COUNTRY, SOME
SAID IT'S ABOUT TIME FOR A
CHANGE.
CHANGE. >> (translated
): I BELIEVE
>> (translated): I
BELIEVE THIS IS A GOOD RESULT
FOR
THIS IS A GOOD RESULT FOR
DEMOCRACY.
I AM IN FAVOR OF A COLORFUL,
MULTI-CULTURAL PARLIAMENT IN
TURKEY AND ANYWHERE IN WORLD.
TURKEY AND ANYWHERE IN WORLD. >>
(translated): THE VOTES
>> (translated): THE
VOTES WERE DTRIBISUTED EQUALLY.
WERE DTRIBISUTED EQUALLY.
SO PEOPLE CAN EXPRESS THEMSELVES
AS THEY WANT.
I THINK THE PROCESS WENT
DEMOCRATICALLY.
>> Woodruff: ERDOGAN HAS NOT
SHOWN UP IN PUBLIC SINCE HE CAST
HIS OWN BALLOT YESTERDAY.
BUT AS THE BALLOTS WERE COUNTED,
IT BECAME CLEAR HIS ISLAMIC-
ROOTED A.K.P. PARTY HAD FAILED
TO HOLD ITS MAJORITY IN
PARLIAMENT, MUCH LESS EXPAND IT
TO GIVE HIM MORE POWER.
OUTSIDE A.K.P. HEADQUARTERS LAST
NIGHT, PARTY LEADERS PUT ON A
BRAVE FACE.
BRAVE FACE. >> (translated
): THE A.K.P. IS
>> (translated): THE
A.K.P. IS THE WINNER AND
FINISHED FIRST IN
THE WINNER AND FINISHED FIRST IN
THIS ELECTION.
THERE IS NO DOUBT ABOUT THAT.
NOBODY SHOULD MAKE A VICTORY OUT
OF AN ELECTION LOSS.
>> Woodruff: NEVERTHELESS,
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT SUPPORTERS
OF THE RIVAL H.D.P. WERE DOING.
MANY SECULAR TURKS,
ENVIRONMENTALISTS AND WOMEN
JOINED THE PRO-KURDISH PARTY TO
HELP IT WIN 13% OF THE VOTE.
HELP IT WIN 13% OF THE VOTE. >>
(translated): THIS IS A
>> (translated): THIS
IS A JOINT VICTORY OF ALL THE
JOINT VICTORY OF ALL THE
OPPRESSED PEOPLE: TURKS, KURDS,
ARABS, CAUCASIANS, ARMENIANS AND
BOSNIAKS; OF ALL ETHNIC
IDENTITIES WHO LIVE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
IT IS THE JOINT VICTORY OF ALL
BELIEFS, ALL OF THE
DISCRIMINATED THAT WANT TO LIVE
FREE WITH THEIR BELIEFS.
>> Woodruff: STILL, TURKEY'S
DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER SAID TODAY
THE A.K.P. WILL TRY TO FORM A
COALITION GOVERNMENT.
COALITION GOVERNMENT. >> (
translated): I BELIEVE
OUR
>> (translated): I
BELIEVE OUR PRIME MINISTER WILL
BE ABLE TO
PRIME MINISTER WILL BE ABLE TO
FORM THE GOVERNMENT WITHIN THE
ALLOTTED TIME THAT WILL SATISFY
EVERYONE.
>> Woodruff: IN TURN, ALL THE
OTHER PARTIES SAID THEY WOULD
NOT JIN OIN A COALITION WITH
A.K.P.
THAT OPENED THE PROSPECT OF
WEEKS OF TURMOIL IN A CRUCIAL
U.S. ALLY IN THE REGION.
AND IT WAS ALL BEING CLOSELY
WATCHED IN WASHINGTON.
>> TURKEY IS A NATO ALLY, US HAS
A STRONG RELATOINSHIP.
CONTINUE WORKING CLOSELY WITH
TURKEY AND WITH THE NEXT
GOVERNMENTHAT TIS FORMED.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. WANTS THAT
NEXT GOVERNMENT, WHENEVER IT IS
FORMED, TO CONTINUE AS A KEY
PART OF THE COALITION WORKING TO
FIGHT THE ISLAMIC STATE IN
SYRIA.
AND JOINING ME NOW TO LOOK AT
WHAT THE ELECTION MEANS FOR
TURKEY, THE REGION AND THE
UNITED STATES ARE: DAVID
IGNATIUS, FOREIGN AFFAIRS
COLUMNIST FOR THE "WASHINGTON
POST."
AND GONUL TOL, THE FOUNDING
DIRECTOR FOR THE MIDDLE EAST
INSTITUTE'S CENTER FOR TURKISH
STUDIES.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
SO GONUL TOL, LET ME START WITH
YOU.
HOW MUCH OF A SURPRISE WITH YOU
THIS OUTCOME?
>> THE ELECTION RESULTS ARE IN
LINE WITH THE MOST RECENT PUBLIC
POLLS BUT I THINK PEOPLE
EXPECTED ANOTHER PERSON AND THE
ATP LOST MUCH MORE THAN IT WAS
EXPECTED.
>> Woodruff: THIS WAS THE
RULING PARTY.
>> THE RULING PARTY.
SO ACCORDING TO, THE PUBLIC
OPINION POLLS, ATP HOVERED
AROUND 44%, SO THIS WAS A BIG
FAILURE FOR THE RULING PARTY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT'S THE
THINKING ABOUT WHY DID THE
KURDH PAISRTY DO AS WELL AS IT
DID?
>> WELL, THE RULING PARTY
ALIENATED LIBERALS, ESPECIALLY
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN, WHO BECAME
INCREASINGLY LEADER.
THE PARTY RAN ON THE CAMPAIGN
AND CARRIED OUT IMPORTANT
REFORMS FOR TURKEY AND THE
REFORM AGENDA GAINED MOMENTUM
STARTING FROM 2011, AND THAT'S
WHEN ERDOGAN AND THE RULING
PARTY MORE T TOTALITARIAN COURSE
AND LOST THE LIBERAL VOTE, AND
ALSO THE RULING PARTY LOST THE
KURDISH VOTE AS WELL AND THAT
WAS THE PROBLEM FOR THE PARTY
AND THEY MANAGED TO CAPTURE THE
VOTE.
>> Woodruff: WAS THIS EQUALLY
A SURPRISE FOR THE WEST AND THE
U.S. AND OTHERS WATCHING?
>> WHAT HAIRED WAS GREAT
UNCERTAINTY OVER THE LAST WEEK
AS PEOPLE LOOKED TOWARD THIS
ELECTION.
IT WAS REALLY CRUCIAL.
PRESIDENT ERDOGAN'S PARTY HAD
WON, THE MAJORITY SEEKING WOULD
HAVE SEEN VERY SIGNIFICANT
CHANGES IN TURKEY.
ERDOGAN WANTED A PRESIDENTIAL
EXECUTIVE SYSTEM WHICH WOULD
HAVE GIVEN HIM MUCH MORE POWER
AND CONTINUED THE CONSOLIDATION
AUTHORITARIANISM UNDER HIS RULE,
AS WAS SAID.
THIS IS A HUGE AFFIRMATION OF
TURKISH DEMOCRACY.
NO EVIDENCE OF CORRUPTION.
THE KURDISH PARTY, IT WAS NOT SO
LONG AGO THAT KURDISH EXPRESSION
WAS ALMOST ILLEGAL IN TURKEY SO
THERE WAS A MOMENT WHICH TURKS
TOOK THEIR DEMOCRACY AND PUSHED
IT FORWARD AND GENERALLY A LOT
OF SALVATION IN TURKEY, THE
AFFIRMATION OF HOW THINGS SHOULD
WORK.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO PEOPLE
EXPECT PRESIDENT ERDOGAN TO DO?
I GATHER HE WAS NOT SEEN IN
PUBLIC TODAY.
>> HE WAS NOT.
ACCORDING TO THE CONSTITUTION,
THE TURKISH PRESIDENT WILL ASK
FOR THE FORMATION OF A COALITION
GOVERNMENT AND THE MOST LIKELY
CAPT. WITH THE PRO KURDISH AND
THE PRO INTERNATIONALIST PARTY
AND H.P. AND IF IT DOESN'T
HAPPEN THE PRESIDENT WILL CALL
FOR EARLIER ELECTIONS.
WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN IF HE DID?
>> INSTABILITY, BECAUSE THE
KURDISH GOVERNMENT AND POLITICAL
AND ECONOMIC INSTABILITY OF THE
1990s, THOSE IMAGES ARE FRESH
IN THE TURKISH MIND, AND I THINK
THAT WILL CREATE A LOT OF
INSTABILITY IN TURKEY.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE NODDING
YOUR HEAD.
HOW DO PEOPLE SEE THE OPTION?
>> THE FINANCIAL MARKETS FELL
SHARPLY TODAY AS THEY LOOKED AT
THIS RESULT AS EXCITING AS IT IS
AN AFFIRMATION OF DEMOCRACY,
IT'S UNCLEAR WHERE TURKEY IS
HEADED THE NEXT FEW MONTHS.
IF THERE IS A GRAND COALITION,
IF THE AK PARTY IS 41% CAN FORM
A COALITION PARTY, STHATS
STABILITY.
THAT'S THE COALITION THAT COULD
LEAD TO RESTORATION OF
CONFIDENCE IN NARCOTICS.
IF THERE IS ANOTHER QUICK SET OF
ELECTIONS, IF EVERYTHING SUN
CLEAR FOR THE NEXT FEW MONTHS,
AT TIME WHEN THERE'S WAR ON
TURKEY'S SOUTHERN BORDERS, THAT
WOULD WORRY PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: DAVID, STAYING
WITH YOU, WHAT DOES IT MEAN,
TURKEY IS IN THE MIDDLE OF THIS
INCREDIBLY VOLATILE PART OF THE
WORLD, WHAT DO PEOPLE THINK THIS
COULD MEAN FOR SYRIA, IRAQ AND
THE REST OF THE AREA?
>> PRESIDENT ORDE ERDOGAN HAS BN
VERY STRONGLY ANTI-BA SHAD IN
SYRIA, IT'S A PERSONAL PASSION
FOR HIM.
HE'S URGING THE U.S. TO MAKE
THIS A WAR TO TOPPLE BASSER.
THERE HAVE BEEN TALKS IN TURKEY
TO CREATE A SAFE HAVEN AROUND
THE TURKISH BORED TORE ALLOW THE
OPPOSITION TO TRAIN AND
MOBILIZE.
WILL THIS MAKE IT LESS OR MORE
LIKELY?
THAT'S HARD TO PREDICT.
>> Woodruff: I WAS READING, IT
WAS PART ERDOGAN'S REACTION TO
SYRIA PART OF WHAT WAS DRIVING
THE VOTE IN THE WAY HE HANDLED
THE CRISIS ALONG THE BORDER.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
SYRIA OCCUPIES TURKISH AND
DOMESTIC POLICY.
THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY HAS BEEN
UNPOPULAR.
WE HAVE 2 MILLION REFUGEES IN
TURKEY AND TURKEY DOES NOT HAVE
THE INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL
FRAMEWORK TO HANDLE THOSE
REFUGEES, AND I THINK TURKEY'S
SOCIAL FABRIC HALLS CHANGED CHAD
FOREVER.
PEOPLE DON'T VOTE ON FOREIGN
POLICY.
IT HAS BECOME A MATTER OF
DMES:00 POLICY.
IN THE BORDER TOWNS YOU WILL SEE
A HUGE DECLINE IN THE SUPPORT
FOR THE A.T.P.
>> Woodruff: YOU SAID SOCIAL
FABRIC CHANGED FOREVER.
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT?
>> THERE ARE 2 MILLION REFUGEES
AND WE HAVE THE ONLY MINORITY
TURKEY HAD IS THE KURDISH
MINORITY AND HAS NOT DEALT WITH
THE KURDISH MINORITY PROPERLY,
SO NOW WE HAVE ANOTHER ETHNIC
GROUP AND TURKEY HAS TO DEAL
WITH THAT.
>> DAVID, WHAT ABOUT THE UNITED
STATES?
ALL OF THIS IS IN THE CONTEXT OF
THE U.S. LOOKING AT THE REGION,
BUT WHAT ARE YOU HEARING?
>> THE U.S. WANTS A STABLE
TURKEY.
THE U.S. WILL BE GLAD PRESIDENT
ERDOGAN'S EFFORT TO GET THIS
UNPRECEDENTED EXECUTIVE POWER IN
THE PRESIDENCY HAS BEEN TURNED
BACK BY THE PEOPLE BUT WILL BE
GLAD TO SEE A N.A.T.O. ALLY, A
LONG-TIME FRIEND OF THE UNITED
STATES AFFIRMING ITS DEMOCRACY.
THIS IS NOW A VERY DANGEROUS
PART OF THE WORLD AND IT'S A
TIME IN WHICH INSTABILITY IN THE
TURKISH GOVERNMENT, UNCERTAINTY
ABOUT THE FUTURE, IS GOING TO BE
DANGEROUS FOR TURKEY AND IT'S
NEIGHBORS AND WORRYING TO THE
UNITED STATES SO I'M SURE THERE
WILL BE A LOT OF DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT POLICY IN THE NEXT SEVERAL
WEEKS.
THE FIRST DECISIONS HAVE TO BE
MADE BY THE TURKS AND THE
ELECTIONS.
>> Woodruff: SO THE REST OF
THE WORLD IS WAITING TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS IN TURKEY.
>> YES, BUT I THINK THEY'RE
HAPPY WITH THE RESULTS.
EUROPE HAS BEEN CRITICAL OF THE
TURN.
THE FINANCIAL MATTERS AND THE
TRADITIONAL LACK OF FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION AND MEDIA FREEDOM, SO
I THINK THIS IS A RESULT YOU
WOULD BE HAPPY WITH.
>> Woodruff: I WAS STRUCK WHAT
YOU SAID ABOUT SUCH A
SIGNIFICANT GESTURE FOR
DEMOCRACY.
>> IT'S A WONDERFUL MOMENT FOR
TURKISH DEMOCRACY.
EVERYBODY I TALK TO TODAY
EXPRESSED THAT.
THE ONLY WORRY IS IT'S ALSO A
PERIOD OF UNCERTAINTY ABOUT THE
FUTURE, AND THEN THAT CONCERNS
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: DAVID SWEAT,
GONUL TOL, WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AN INTENSIVE
MANHUNT CONTINUED IN UPSTATE NEW
YORK TODAY, AFTER TWO PRISONERS
WERE DISCOVERED MISSING SATURDAY
FROM THE STATE'S LARGEST MAXIMUM
SECURITY PRISON, FOLLOWING A
REMARKABLE ESCAPE THAT STUNNED
THE AUTHORITIES.
WILLIAM IS BACK WITH THAT STORY.
>> Brangham: POLICE CONTINUE TO
SWEEP THE TOWN AND COUNTRYSIDE
SURROUNDING DANNEMORA PRISON,
SEARCHING FOR TWO CONVICTED
MURDERS WHO CUT THROUGH CEMENT
WALLS AND STEEL PIPES, THEN
EVENTUALLY EMERGED THROUGH A
MANHOLE OUTSIDE THE PRISON'S
WALLS, ABOUT A BLOCK AWAY.
RICHARD MATT KIDNAPPED, KILLED
AND DISMEMBERED A MAN IN 1997,
DAVID SWEAT KILLED A SHERIFF'S
DEPUTY IN 2002, SHOOTING HIM
MORE THAN A DOZEN TIMES.
OVER THE WEEKEND, NEW YORK
GOVERNOR ANDREW CUOMO TOURED THE
PRISON AND TALKED ABOUT THE
BREAKOUT.
IS IS THE FIRST ESCAPE FROM
THE MAXIMUM SECURITY PORTION OF
THE INSTITUTION EVER SINCE 1865,
SO, BY DEFINITION, IT WAS AN
EXTRAORDINARY ACT.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT HOW IT WAS
DONE, IT WAS EXTRAORDINARY.
THEY WENT THROUGH THE TUNNELS.
YOU LOOK AT THE PRECISION OF THE
OPERATION, IT WAS TRULY
EXTRAORDINARY.
>> Branham: WE'RE JOINED BY
JESSE McKINLEY WHO HAS BEEN
REPORTING TON BREAK FROM THE
"NEW YORK TIMES" AND JOINS ME
FROM DANNEMORA, NEW YORK.
JESSE, THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE.
TELL US WHERE THE HAN MANHUNT
STANDS NOW.
GIVEN HOW LONG AGO THESE MEN
BROKE OUT, THIS HAS TO BE A HUGE
SEARCH AREA.
>> YES, ACCORDING TO THE STATE
OF FLORIDA, THERE ARE ABOUT 300
OFFICERS INVOLVED AND, ACCORDING
TO THE GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK, ANDREW CUOMO, THIS
COULD BE A NATIONWIDE SEARCH.
INITIALLY THEY WERE INTERESTED
IN THE AREA AROUND US, WHICH IS
JUST TO MY RIGHT, BUT AT THIS
POINT IT'S EXPANDED BEYOND THE
BORDERS IN THE STATE,
POTENTIALLY TO CANADA, MEXICAN
AUTHORITIES AND OFFICIALS IN THE
SOUTHWEST HAVE BEEN ALERTED.
ONE OF THE SUSPECTS RICHARD MATT
WAS BELIEVED TO HAVE TAKEN
REFUGE AT ONE POINT.
>> Branham: FOR WHEEL WHO
HAVEN'T BEEN FOLLOWING THE INS
AND OUTS OF THIS, CAN YOU
DESCRIBE HOW REMARKABLE THE
BREAKOUT WAS?
>> THEY OBTAINED POWER TOOLS,
CUT HOLES IN THE WALLS OF THEIR
CELLS, THEY CLAMORED DOWN INTO
THE BOWELS OF THE PRISON AND CUT
THEIR WAY INTO A DRAIN PIPE OF
SOME SORT AND CRAWL 300 OR
400 FEET UNDERGROUND AND EMERGE
OUT OF A MANHOLE.
THE AMOUNT OF COORDINATION, THE
CUTTING, STEEL ON STEEL IN A
CONFINED SPACE OF A PRISON TO GO
UNDETECTED OR, IF THEY WERE
DETECTED, TO EITHER HAVE
COOPERATION OF OTHER INMATES
INSIDE OR EVEN SOME SORT OF
PRISON OFFICIAL TO HIDE THEIR
WHEREABOUTS AND HIDE THEIR
ACTIVITIES IS PRETTY REMARKABLE.
>> Branham: HAVE OFFICIALS
GIVE AN SENSE OF HOW LONG IT
MUST HAVE TAKEN THEM?
YOU'RE DESCRIBING A VERY
BYZANTINE ROUTE THROUGH PRISON.
HOW WOULD HAVE IT HAVE TAKEN
THEM?
>> WE REALLY DON'T KNOW.
IT COULD HAVE BEEN DAYS OR
WEEKS.
PEOPLE ARE CERTAIN THIS WASN'T
HATCHED OVERNIGHT.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THEY CAME
UP WITH ON A WHIM.
THE LEVEL OF COORDINATION, ONCE
AGAIN, THE AMOUNT OF TIME IT
TOOK TO GET THROUGH THE WALLS,
INTO THE TUNNELS, THROUGH STEAM
PIPE AND OUT OF THE MANHOLE,
THEY'VE ONLY TAKEN AN HOUR IN
PRACTICE, BUT IN TERMS OF
PREPARATION, IT WOULD HAVE TAKEN
DAYS, MAYBE WEEKS.
>> Branham: GOVERNOR CUOMO
SAYS IT SEEMS LIKE AN INSIDE
JOB.
IS THAT BECAUSE IT SEEMS
IMPOSSIBLE THE TWO MEN COULD
HAVE PULLED THIS OFF BY
THEMSELVES?
>> THAT, IN ADDITION THERE IS A
SENSE OF THE NOISE IT WOULD HAVE
CREATED WOULD HAVE BEEN INTENSE.
THERE IS A REPORT OUT TODAY THAT
THEY MAY HAVE HAD SOME SORT OF
ASSOCIATE, A FEMALE ASSOCIATE
INSIDE OF THE PRISON WHO MAY
HAVE BEEN INVOLVED ROMANTICALLY
OR OTHERWISE WITH ONE OF THE
SUSPECTS.
I THINK, THOUGH, AT THIS POINT,
AUTHORITIES HAVE BASICALLY CAST
A VERY WIDE NET.
RIGHT NOW THE MAIN SOURCE OF
THEIR SEARCH IS TO GET THESE TWO
GUYS AND GET THEM BACK INTO
PRISON.
>> Branham: I WONDER IF YOU
COULD DESCRIBE WHAT IT'S LIKE IN
THE COMMUNITY ITSELF.
HAVING TWO CONVICTED MURDERERS
LOOSE IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD HAS
TO BE ALARMING TO SAY THE LEAST.
HAVE YOU SEEN EVIDENCE FROM
THAT?
HAVE YOU HEARD THAT FROM PEOPLE?
>> I MEAN, IT'S INTERESTING.
THIS IS VERY MUCH A PRISON TOWN.
THIS IS A PLACE WHERE GENERATION
AFTER GENERATION HAS WORKED IN
THE PRISON, CORRECTIONS OFFICERS
ARE VERY COMMON IN THE TOWN, AND
THEY ARE PEACE OFFICERS, SO
THERE'S A SENSE THAT, WITH ALL
OF THE INTENSITY, ALL OF THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS HERE, THIS
IS ACTUALLY ONE OF THE SAFEST
PLACES IN THE COUNTRY.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE ACT OF THE
BREAKOUT, THE FACT THEY WERE
ABLE TO PENETRATE THE WALLS AND
GET LOOSE IN A COMMUNITY THAT IS
A SUPPOSEDLY SECURE, I THINK
THAT WAS UNSET THING FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
>> Branham: THE TRADITIONAL
WAYS WE TRACK CRIMINALS, CELL
PHONES, CREDIT CARDS, IS THERE
ANY SENSE OF HOW THEY'RE GOING
ABOUT TRYING TO TRACK THESE MEN
WHO MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO ANY
OF THOSE THINGS THAT POINT IS
.HIS
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE'S A SUGGESTION THEY MAY
HAVE AN ACCOMPLICE OUTSIDE AND A
CAR BURKS BEYOND THAT THEY
CERTAINLY DON'T HAVE CELL PHONES
AND CREDITED CARDS M OF THE
TRACKING DEVICES LAW ENFORCEMENT
WOULD USE TO TRACK THEM SIMPLY
DON'T APPLY IN THIS CASE.
THAT BEING SAID, IF THEY HOOKED
UP WITH SOMEONE OUTSIDE, THEY
MAY BE SCANNING VIDEOTAPES OF
GAS STATIONS, CHECKING OUT
EYEWITNESS OF REPORTS WHO MAY
HAVE SEEN THESE PEOPLE TRAVELING
ALONG INTERSTATES OR WHAT HAVE
YOU BURKS THERE IS VERY LITTLE
ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE AT THE
PRISON AND ON THE STREET CORNER
WHERE THEY EMERGED, THERE IS
CERTAINLY NO CAMERAS THERE.
>> Branham: JESSE McKINLEY
OF THE "NEW YORK TIMES," THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, THE IMPACT OF
A PODCAST THAT BECAME A
PHENOMENON.
"SERIAL'S" INVESTIGATION OF A
MURDER CASE AND A DEFENDANT WHO
MAY HAVE BEEN WRONGLY CONVICTED.
THE PODCAST'S SEASON WRAPPED UP
DURING THE WINTER, BUT THERE'S
STILL MAJOR INTEREST AND NEW
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE CASE.
AN APPEAL IS FORTHCOMING, ONE
THAT COULD LEAD TO A NEW TRIAL,
A PLEA DEAL, OR PERHAPS A
DECISION BY THE STATE TO DROP IT
ENTIRELY.
AT THE SAME TIME, LARGER
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE JUSTICE
SYSTEM ARE BEING STOKED ANEW BY
THIS TRUE CRIME INVESTIGATION
AND OTHERS.
AND BACK TO WILLIAM, WHO HAS
BEEN FOLLOWING THE STORY.
THIS IS A STORY TOLD WEEK BY
WEEK.
>> "SERIAL" IS THE MOST POPULAR
PODCAST IN THE WORLD.
THROUGHOUT 12 EPISODES, SARA AND
HER TEAM INVESTIGATE A CASE FROM
THE '90s THAT PUT A TEENAGER
IN CASE FOR LIFE.
BUT "SERIAL" DISCOVERED A KEY
ALIBI WITNESS THAT COULD HELP
OVERTURN THE CONVICTION.
ADVOCATES FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SAYS "SERIAL" HAS BEEN A WELCOME
REMINDER OF THE PROBLEMS WITH
OUR SYSTEM.
>> WHAT'S USEFUL ABOUT "SERIAL"
AND OFTEN HAPPENS IN CASE WHERE
IS PUBLIC ATTENTION IS FOCUSED
ON A POSSIBLE MISCARRIAGE OF
JUSTICE IS THAT ALL KINDS OF
PEOPLE CAME TO LOOK AT THE
RECORD AND GO, OH, WELL, THIS OR
THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE.
>> THE STORY BEGAN IN 1999 IN A
SUBU OUTRBSIDE BALTIMORE WHERE A
17-YEAR-OLD GIRL NAMED HAE MIN
LEE WENT MISSING.
>> I PLAYED LaCROSSE TWO
YEARS.
>> Branham: TWO YEARS LATER,
HER BODY WAS FOUND BURIED IN A
LOCAL PARK, STRANGLED TO DEATH.
TWO WEEKS AFTER, ADNAN SYED, HER
BOYFRIEND, WAS ARRESTED AND
CHARGED WITH THE MURDER.
>> 17-YEAR-OLD WOODLAWN STUDENT,
ADNAN SYED.
>> Branham: SYED ALWAYS SAID
HE WAS INNOCENT BUT FOUND GUILTY
AND SENT TO PRISON.
LISTENERS OF "SERIAL" WENT
THROUGH THE INVESTIGATION AND
WHETHER SYED HAD AN EFFECTIVE
DEFENSE.
JUSTIN GEORGE IS A CRIME
REPORTER OF THE BALTIMORE SUN.
HE TOOK ME TO SOME TO HAVE THE
KEY LOCATIONS IN THE CASE
EXPLAINING HOW "SERIAL" RAISED
QUESTIONS ABOUT SYED'S
CONVICTION.
WE BEGAN IN LINKEN PARK IN
BALTIMORE, WHERE HAE MIN LEE'S
BODY WAS DISCOVERED.
>> THE BODY WAS FOUND ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE LOG, IN A
SHALLOW GRAVE.
>> Branham: THERE WAS NO DNA
EVIDENCE AT THE SCENE LINKING
SYED TO THE MURDER -- NO BLOOD,
NO HAIRS, NOTHING.
THIS BEST BUY PARKING LOT IS
WHERE PROSECUTORS SAY HAE MIN
LEE WAS MURDERED.
>> WE'RE AT THE BEST BUY WHICH
IS 4 MINUTES AWAY FROM WOODLAWN
HIGH SCHOOL WHERE, AGAIN, THE
PROSECUTION SAYS ADNAN AND HAE
ARRIVED AFTER SCHOOL AND HE
POSSIBLY KILLED HER.
>> QUESTIONS WERE RAISED BY THE
GOVERNMENT'SED WITH, JAY WILD,
HIS TIME LINE, AS WELL AS CELL
PHONE RECORDS PROSECUTORS USED
TO PROVE THE GUILT.
ASIA McCLAIN WAS TRACKED DOWN,
A FELLOW STUDENT WHO SAYS SHE
SAW ADNAN SYED IN THIS LIBRARY
AT THE SAME TIME THE PROSECUTION
SAID HE WAS OUT COMMITTING THE
MURDER.
>> THIS IS WHERE ASIA McCLAIN,
CLASS MAID OF ADNAN AND HAE,
SAID SHE SAW HIM HERE AND SHE
WROTE TWO LETTERS AFTER HIS
ARREST SAYING I SAW YOU HERE.
I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU DID THIS
BECAUSE I SAW YOU DURING THAT
DAY.
>> Branham: SO SHE PROVIDES A
PRETTY STRONG ALIBI FOR ADNAN.
WHY IS HE IN PRISON?
>> HIS TRIAL ATTORNEY DIDN'T
CALL OR SPEAK WITH HER.
THAT'S THE BASIS OF HIS APPEAL
THAT HE HAD INEFFECTIVE TRIAL
COUNCIL.
WHY WOULDN'T HE?
>> Branham: IN THE FIRST
EPISODE OF "SERIAL, --
>> EVEN NOW, IT WOULD BE NICE IF
THERE WAS A TECHNICALITY OR
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BRAVE IT'S
INNOCENT.
>> ASIA, I THINK YOU MUS MIGHT E
THE TECHNICALITY.
IF YO YOU'RE SAYING YOU SAW HIMN
THIS DAY AT THAT TIME THAT MEANS
THE STATE'S TIMELINE FOR THEIR
THEORY DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
>> DID ASIA APPRECIATE HOW
CENTRAL SHE MIGHT BE TO
SUBSEQUENT APPEALS?
>> I DON'T THINK SHE DID.
I DON'T THINK SHE FULLY
UNDERSTOOD.
I THINK AFTER "SERIL" AAIRED AND
SHE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
LISTEN TO IT ALL, I THINK SHE
UNDERSTOOD HOW IMPORTANT SHE WAS
IN THIS.
>> Branham: SPOILER ALERT, FOR
THOSE WHO DIDN'T LISTEN TO THE
PODCAST, "SERIAL" NEVER ANSWERED
THE QUESTION DID SYED KILL HAE
MIN LEE OR NOT?
BUT THE LEGAL DAYS CASE IS NOT
OVER.
SIX MONTHS AGO ASIA McCLAIN
SIGNED A NEW AFFIDAVIT
REAFFIRMING SHE SAW SYED AT THE
LIBRARY AND FORMED THE BASIS FOR
SYED'S LAST BEST APPEAL THAT
HE'S ARGUING HE GOT WHAT'S
CALLED "INEFFECTIVE COUNSEL" AND
LAST MONTH THE MARYLAND COURT OF
SPECIAL APPEALS RULED ASIA
McCLA'S TINESTIMONY NEEDS TO
BE HEARD IN PERSON.
"SERIAL" EELS PO," CONSPIRACY TS
ARE FLOATED, ALTERNATE SUSPECTS
ARE SUGGESTED AND FULL TV SHOWS
DEVOTED TO IT.
>> THIS IS A VERY SPECIAL
EDITION OF THE DOCKET DEVOTED TO
THE CASE UNDERLYING THE POPULAR
"SERIAL" PODCAST.
>> IT TAWRND KARA INTO A
ROUGHING STAR PACKING IN BIG
CROWDS WHO WANT TO HEAR MORE
ABOUT THE CASE AND THE PODCAST
LIKE THIS SATURDAY AT THE
AMPHITHEATER IN NORTHERN
VIRGINIA.
PEOPLE HAVE THEIR OWN THEORIES.
>> I FEEL THEY'RE CREATING A
CASE.
>> THEY'D BROKEN UP, SHE WAS
MOVING ON.
>> I THINK HE'S GUILTY.
JUST KEEP GOING BACK TO THE
TIME.
IT HAS TO BE ADNAN OR JAY.
>> I THINK IT WAS JAY.
'M PULLING FOR HIS
INNOCENCE.
>> I WONDER HOW MANY PEOPLE IN
THIS SITUATION DON'T HAVE THE
MEDIA INTEREST TO ALLOW PEOPLE
TO COME FORWARD AND SAY I WAS
THERE AND NEVER INTERVIEWED.
>> PRESS CAMPAIGNS AROUND
MISCARRIAGES OF JUSTICE AND
CALLING PUBLIC ATTENTION TO IT
HAS A LONG AND RICH HISTORY.
>> BARRY SCHECK IS THE
CO-FOUNDER OF THE INNOCENCE
PROJECT A NATIONAL ORGANIZATION
DEDICATED TO EXONERATING
WRONGFULLY CONVICTED
INDIVIDUALS, THEY HAVE BEEN
ASSISTED ON SYED'S CASE.
CHECKLIST, "SERIAL" IS -- IS OE
IN A LONG LINE OF THINGS.
LIKE THE JINX OR WEST MEMPHIS.
OR THE 1988 DOCUMENTARY THE
THIN, BLUE LINE.
IN EACH CASE THE COURSE OF
JUSTICE WAS CHANGED IN PART BY
THESE INVESTIGATIONS.
>> THESE CASES, WHEN THEY
CAPTURE THE PUBLIC IMAGINATION
AND PEOPLE GET INVOLVED AND
INVESTIGATE OFTEN COME TO GOOD
OUTCOMES JUST BECAUSE ATTENTION
IS PAID.
>> THERE ARE ONLY A FEW ERIL
MORRISES AND SARAH KINGS OUT
THERE.
WHAT DOES THAT TELL YOU ABOUT
THE JUSTICE SYSTEM?
>> IT TELLS US THAT THE JUSTICE
SYSTEM IS RIDDLED WITH ERRORS.
THAT'S WHAT WE'VE LEARNED FROM
THE INNOCENCE MOVEMENT WE DATE
TOLL 1989 BECAUSE THAT WAS THE
BEGINNING OF DNA TESTING IN THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
IT EXPOSED ALL THE PROBLEMS WITH
EYEWITNESS IDENTIFICATIONS,
FALSE CONFESSIONS AND INVALID OR
FRAUDULENT FORENSIC SCIENCE, IFN
EFFECTIVE ASSISTANCE OF COUNSEL,
POLICE AND PROSECUTORIAL
MISCONDUCT AND YOU GET THOSE
THINGS OPERATING AT THE SAME
TIME AGAINST A PARTICULAR
DEFENDANT.
>> ALL ARGUMENTS FOR ADNAN
SYED'S APPEAL ARE SUPPOSED TO
BEGIN SOON.
A SECOND SEASON OF "SERIAL," ONE
DETAILING A COMPLETELY DIFFERENT
STORY WILL BEGIN THIS FALL.
FOR THE PBS "NewsHour",
WILLIAM.
>>
>> Woodruff: WE'VE BEEN
FOLLOWING THE PROCESS ONLINE,
WHERE YOU CAN ALSO WATCH A VIDEO
TOUR FEATURING KEY LOCATIONS IN
THE MURDER INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO THE
BLURRING BORDERS OF THE INTERNET
IN THE BATTLE FOR HEARTS AND
MINDS AROUND THE WORLD, THAT
SOMETIMES INVOLVES MASSIVE
DECEPTION.
TONIGHT, JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT
A SECRET ORGANIZATION THAT'S
WORKING OVERTIME TO SELL FICTION
AS REALITY.
>> Brown: SEPTEMBER 11, 2014,
THERE IS AN EXPLOSION AT A
CHEMICAL FACTOR IN ST. MARY'S'
PARISH IN LOUISIANA.
VIDEO ON YOUTUBE, TWITTER
FLOODED WITH CHATTER INCLUDING
SCREEN SHOTS OF NEWS WEB SITES,
A LOCAL TV STATION AND APPEARS
CNN'S.
A VIDEO SURFACES OF I.S.I.S.
TAKING RESPONSIBILITY AND
WARNING OF TOXIC FUMES IN THE
AREA.
BIG NEWS, EXCEPT THERE WAS NO
EXPLOSION.
THE VIDEO WAS A FAKE, AS WERE
THE NEWS WEB SITES THAT REPORTED
IT AND THE FOOTAGE OF THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP TAKING
CREDIT.
THE SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS WERE NOT
WHAT THEY SEEMED.
AS REPORTED IN A COVER STORY IN
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" MAGAZINE,
IT WAS ALL THE WORK TO HAVE THE
INTERNET RESEARCH AGENCY, THE
SHADOWY RUSSIAN ORGANIZATIONED
BASED IN ST. PETERSBURG.
ADRIAN, THIS IS A BIZARRE TALE.
WHAT IS THE INTERNET RESEARCH
AGENCY?
HOW MUCH DO WE FOE ABOUT IT?
>> WE KNOW THE BARE OUTLINES OF
WHAT IT IS THEY DO.
IT'S A GROUP IN ST. PETERSBURG,
RUSSIA, THAT HIRES HUNDREDS OF
RUSSIANS TO SPREAD PRO RUSSIAN
PROPAGANDA ON THE INTERNET AND
ONE OF THE TACTICS IS TO PRETEND
TO BE PEOPLE, AMERICANS AND
RUSSIANS ON SOCIAL MEDIA LIKE
Facebook AND TWITTER.
>> Brown: THE ROLL OF
SO-CALLED TROLLS AT, AS YOU SAY,
AN INDUSTRIALIZED LEVEL.
WHAT IS TROLLS AND TROLLING?
>> TROLLS AND TROLLING ARE
OLD-SCHOOL INTERNET SLANG AND
THEY MEAN PEOPLE WHO COME IN AND
JUST TRY TO DO WHATEVER THEY CAN
TO BE DISRUPTIVE AND DERAIL THE
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: SO IT LOOKS
WELL-ORGANIZED, WELL-TARGETED.
HOW IS IT ORGANIZED AND WHO'S
BEHIND IT?
THERE'S A SUGGESTION OF AN
OLIGARCH AT LEAST FUNDING IT.
>> RUSSIAN OPPOSITION NEWSPAPERS
HAVE LINKED THE INTERNET
RESEARCH AGENCY TO AMMAN NAMED
BENNY GABOSIAN (PHONETIC) AND
HIS NAME IN THE PRESS IS THE
KREMLIN'S CHEF BECAUSE HE HAS A
LOT OF CONNECTIONS AND CONTRACTS
WITH THE KREMLIN, ESPECIALLY THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
>> Brown: YOU TALKED WITH
PEOPLE WHO WORKED THERE.
GIVE US A FEEL FOR INSIDE THE
ORGANIZATION.
WHAT IS IT LIKE TO WORK THERE?
HOW MUCH DO THEY DO?
HOW MUCH DO THEY KNOW ABOUT WHAT
THEY'RE DOING?
>> EVERYTHING IS KEPT PRETTY
SECRETIVE EVEN TO THE WORKERS.
WHAT THEY DESCRIBE IS A FAIRLY
NORMAL IF KIND OF RIGOROUS WORK
SCHEDULE WHERE THEY DID 12-HOUR
SHIFTS.
THEY WOULD COME IN AND POST SO
MANY HUNDREDS OF COMMENTS UNDER
DIFFERENT PERSONA, YOU KNOW,
PRETENDING TO BE NORMAL RUSSIANS
OR NORMAL AMERICANS.
>>> Brown: AND I DESCRIBED ONE
CASE OF THIS LOUISIANA
EXPLOSION -- SUPPOSED EXPLOSION.
WHAT OTHER KINDS OF CASES HAVE
THERE BEEN?
WHAT OTHER KINDS OF HOAXES?
WHAT IS THE SORT OF ROUTINE
STUFF THAT GETS SENT OUT FROM
THIS PLACE?
>> ONE IS THIS KIND OF
PROPAGANDA OF PRETENDING TO BE
NORMAL PEOPLE, PRAISING PUTIN,
SLAM BING OBAMA, AND THEN THERE
ARE MORE SERIOUS THINGS WITH THE
HOAXES, AND IT'S UNCLEAR EXACTLY
WHAT THE RELATIONSHIP IS BETWEEN
THOSE TYPES OF WORK.
BUT IN THE SECOND CASE, WITH THE
HOAXES, THERE WAS ONE WHERE THEY
TRIED TO SPREAD THE STORY THAT
THERE WAS AN EBOLA OUTBREAK IN
ATLANTA WHEN THERE WASN'T AND,
ALSO, IN ATLANTA, THERE WAS A
WOMAN WHO HAD BEEN SHOT BY
POLICE, AND THIS WAS RIGHT IN
THE MIDDLE OF ALL THE PROTESTS
OVER FERGUSON AND MICHAEL BROWN,
AND SEEMS LIKE A CASE OF TRYING
TO JUMP ON THIS CAUSE AND KIND
OF CAUSE SOME PANIC.
>> Brown: YOU'RE RIGHT.
THIS BECAME VERY PERSONAL FOR
YOU.
YOU'RE SAVVY ENOUGH
TECHNOLOGICALLY TO KIND OF
UNSPOOL THIS TO FIGURE OUT WHO'S
DOING IT BURKS TURNED OUT THEY
KIND OF TURNED THE TABLES ON YOU
AND MADE YOU PART OF THE STORY.
>> WHEN I WENT THE
ST. PETERSBURG TO TRY TO
INTERVIEW SOME WORKERS, I SPOKE
TO ONE WOMAN WHO SAID SHE WOULD
ONLY MEET ME WITH HER BROTHER
BECAUSE SHE WAS SCARED AND
WANTED PROTECTION.
I SHOW UP AND HE'S THIS REALLY
SCARY LOOKING SKINHEAD WITH A
BIG SWASTIKA TATTOO.
BUT SHE AND I HAD A PRETTY
NORMAL INTERVIEW AND I GET BACK
TO THE STATES AND SEE PEOPLE HAD
BEEN SECRETLY SURVEILLING OUR
MEETING, AND THEY SPUN THIS
WHOLE TALE THAT I HAD ACTUALLY
BEEN MEETING THE PERSON SHE SAID
WAS HER BROTHER BASICALLY TO
RECRUIT NEO-NAZIS OR SOMETHING
ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES.
>> Brown: ADRIAN, WHAT DO WE
KNOW ABOUT THE LARGER GOALS?
WE GET THE WAY IT WORKS AND THE
TARGETS BUT WHAT'S THE BIG
PICTURE?
HOW MUCH DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THAT?
>> I THINK THE BIG PICTURE IS
YOU HAVE TO GO BACK TO 2011
WHERE THERE WERE HUGE ANTI-PUTIN
PROTESTS IN RUSSIA AND THOSE ARE
ALL ORGANIZED ON Facebook,
SOCIAL MEDIA, LED BY TECH-SAVVY
BLOGGERS AND READERS WHO CAME UP
THROUGH THE INTERNET, AND AFTER
THAT, IT BECAME A REAL PRIORITY
FOR THE KREMLIN TO BASICALLY
CRACK DOWN ON THE INTERNET, MAKE
SURE NOTHING LIKE THAT HAPPENED
AGAIN.
AND THESE TROLLS, THIS KIND OF
WORK, FROM WHAT I'VE GATHERED
FROM TALKING TO ACTIVISTS, IT'S
REALLY KIND OF TO POLLUTE THE
INTERNET TO MAKE IT AN
UNRELIABLE SOURCE FOR PEOPLE SO
RUSSIANS WHO MIGHT WANT TO KNOW
ABOUT OPPOSITION LEADERS OR
OTHER THINGS FROM THE KREMLIN
NARRATIVE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
TRUST IT.
>> ADRIAN CHEN,QUI TE A TALE.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, SENSORS IN YOUR CAR KEEP
TABS ON THE HEALTH OF YOUR
VEHICLE.
NOW, A GROUP OF NANO-ENGINEERS
(WHO WORK WITH MINIATURE TOOLS)
HAVE TAKEN STEPS TOWARD DOING
THE SAME IN HUMANS.
SCIENTISTS HAVE DEVELOPED AN
ULTRA-SKINNY ELECTRONIC MESH
THAT CAN BE INJECTED INTO THE
BRAIN TO MONITOR ITS BIOLOGICAL
ACTIVITY.
IT'S STILL IN DEVELOPMENT
STAGES, BUT YOU CAN READ HOW IT
WOULD WORK, AND SEE A DIAGRAM OF
THE PROCESS, ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
TUNE IN LATER TONIGHT, ON
CHARLIE ROSE, MORE REACTION AND
ANALYSIS OF THE SURPRISING
RESULTS OF THE TURKISH
ELECTIONS.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
FIGHT FOR IRAQ, WITH THAT
COUNTRY'S AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENG.NI
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.